tutorial room 5 readme (#1215)
playmint/ds: contracts/src/maps/tutorial-room-5/README.md

Reviewer: I think we could probably condense steps 1 - 4 into a single step that assumes prior knowledge from tutorial-1, since this is what the room-3 does.

**but** it reads _really_ well as-is so let's not make work for ourselves here today, and maybe we can come back another day to do a consistency pass over all the tutorials.

# Downstream Game Creation Tutorial 5

## Aim

We will follow the steps below to create a downstream map with your own tile layout, a building that can incrememnt an on-chain counter, two buildings that display the counter value, a building that can start a countdown timer and two buildings which will display the countdown.

Once complete, you will have used the core Downstream tools to create a map that looks like this when played:

<img src="./readme-images/screenshot.png" width=300>

> # Prerequisites

Reviewer: this title and all subsequent at this level should be H2... + bump any H2 -> H3 where sub-sub have been used

```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

-   This repository cloned to your desktop. (Instructions in the top [readme](../../../../README.md).)
-   [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
-   [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm)

# 1. Deploy the game (The next 4 steps are identical to tutorial 1)

First, deploy an instance of Downstream locally using Docker.

From a terminal in the repository root run:

```bash
docker compose up --pull=always
```

After some time (this could take up to 5 minutes), you should see "ready" in the terminal output:

    contracts-1  | +-------+
    contracts-1  | | ready |
    contracts-1  | +-------+

> You can now open a web browser and navigate to [http://localhost:3000] to load the game.

Reviewer: should this be a link...

```suggestion
You can now open a web browser and navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to load the game.
```

        kvps[data.name] = data.value;
        return kvps;
    }, {});
}
```

and within the `update` function we are now able to get the value by calling `getDataInt` like so

```js
const count = getDataInt(counterHQ, "count");
```

# 8. Display the count variable

We are now going to display the count by finding all `Counter` buildings within a two tile reference from our `CounterHQ` and supplying them with the `count` value we obtained in the previous step.

## Defining a counter building

A counter building can be defined as a building of category `display` with a `model` of `default`. It has no additional .js or .sol files associated with it.

Create a `Counter.yaml` file in the same folder as the `CounterHQ` building and paste the following:

`Counter.yaml`

```yaml
---
kind: BuildingKind
spec:
    name: Counter
    description: "Displays a number"
    category: display
    model: default
    color: 0
    materials:
        - name: Green Goo
          quantity: 25
        - name: Blue Goo
          quantity: 25
        - name: Red Goo
          quantity: 25
```

## Finding all counter buildings within a 2 tile radius

> To make this easier we can use the following helper functions which can be pasted at the end of `CounterHQ.js`

Reviewer: this might need a _little_ more info on what they are doing as they are quite weird funcs

```suggestion
The raw tile coordinates need decoding a bit to calculate distances between them. To make this easier we can use the following helper functions, which can be pasted at the end of `CounterHQ.js`
```

... or something

```yaml
kind: BuildingKind
spec:
    name: Countdown HQ
    description: "This building is an example of driving countdown buildings"
    category: custom
    model: 11-03
    color: 0
    contract:
        file: ./CountdownHQ.sol
    plugin:
        file: ./CountdownHQ.js
        alwaysActive: true
    materials:
        - name: Green Goo
          quantity: 10
        - name: Blue Goo
          quantity: 10
        - name: Red Goo
          quantity: 10
```

# 11. Implement the start timer functions in both the plugin and contract

The implementation of the timer is essentially the case of setting a future block number for when the timer will end. The current block number is passed into the main `update` function which we can add to the number of blocks we want the timer to last for.

We can use the following code for the `startTimer` function

`CountdownHQ.js`

```js
const startTimer = (durationSecs) => {
    const endBlock = block + durationSecs / BLOCK_TIME_SECS;

    const payload = ds.encodeCall("function startTimer(uint256)", [endBlock]);

    ds.dispatch({
        name: "BUILDING_USE",
        args: [countdownHQ.id, mobileUnit.id, payload],
    });
};
```

> We are calling this function from the button actions which were already defined in the skeleton code that we pasted earlier.

Reviewer: maybe needs making clear that this is like an event listener

```suggestion
This function is called from our button's `action` handler, which we already defined in the skeleton code earlier.
```

> ```js
>     buttons: [
>         {
>             text: "Start 30 second timer",
>             type: "action",
>             action: () => startTimer(30),
>         },
>         {
>             text: "Start 1 minute timer",
>             type: "action",
>             action: () => startTimer(60),
>         },
>     ],

Reviewer: it's not immediately obviously where this bit is, _might_ benefit from some snipped context like, but maybe that's just me:

````suggestion
```js
return {
   ...
    buttons: [
        {
            text: "Start 30 second timer",
            type: "action",
            action: () => startTimer(30),
        },
        {
            text: "Start 1 minute timer",
            type: "action",
            action: () => startTimer(60),
        },
    ],
    ....
};
````
